# data

This repository contains all files the group were given, or have generated to use as input. The files and their contents are as follows:
- [BPEXA_genes.tsv](BPEXA_genes.tsv) - contains a count table of all SNP types per gene feature as outputted by snpEff during the latest run. 
- [Jersey_kale_analyse1.fa](Jersey_kale_analyse1.fa) - an outdated version of slice script output. Contains all nucleotide sequences of the gene features of interest for the Jersey kale in a single fasta file.
- [brassica_analyse1.fa](brassica_analyse1.fa) - an outdated version of slice script output. Contains all nucleotide sequences of the gene features of interest for the reference geneome in a single fasta file. 
- [genID.txt](genID.txt) - A newline-separated list of gene IDs. This list contains the IDs for all the genes of interest. The list was generated by removing the count table from the genes of interest list as given by Naturalis. 
- [kopie_short.txt](kopie_short.txt) - a shortened version of the GFF3-file belonging to the reference genome. This shortened version only contains records related to the genes of interest.
- [nieuw_indels](nieuw_indels) - **PENDING**
- [testfasta_01.txt](testfasta_01.txt) - a test input file for the slice script and sorting script. This file follows the style conventions of a fasta file and has known contents with all currently known problems the project group has run into. 
- [testgff3_01.txt](testgff3_01.txt) - a test input file for the slice script and sorting script. This file follows the style conventions of a GFF3-file, and has known contents with all currently known problems the project group has run into.
- [updated_gff3.txt](updated_gff3.txt) - The records of the GFF3 file, after all records relating to the genes of interest have been selected. This shortened list of records was then fed into the sorting script, ordering the records in transcribing order and adding the noncoding region feature type.
